	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.     08/16/2000 06:11
AM12:15
GMT 16 August 2000=DJ Calif Generators
: `We Welcome Probe Into Power Market'  
(This articlewas originally published Tuesday)       
By Jason Leopold     OF DOW JONESNEWSWIRES    LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--When California Attorney General BillLockyer completes his investigation into possible "collusion" in thewholesale electricity market by generators, energy companies say he willprobably find the same thing Geraldo Rivera found in Al Capone's safe:nothing.  
Still, those companies that own generation in the state say theywelcome the probe into the power market by Attorney General Bill Lockyer.
"We have done nothing wrong at all," said Tom Williams, spokesman for DukeEnergy North America (DUK).
"Our plants have been running all summer long.
Prices are high throughout the west.
We wouldn't invest $1.7 billion in newgeneration and then try and rig the market."  
For the past two months,utilities, lawmakers and other market participants have made allegationsthat generators are manipulating the market and are largely responsible forthe price spikes.  
Locker's office said an investigation is still pending.
State regulators are also conducting their own investigation, the findingsof which will be submitted to the governor and the Federal Energy RegulatoryCommission by the end of the year.  
Allegations Said Unsubstantiated  Thereisn't a shred of evidence to support allegations, said Severing Borenstein,director of the University of California, Berkley's, Energy Institute.
"There are no antitrust laws that state you can't charge a premium price forpower," Borenstein said.
"Manipulation is a bad word.
That's used in thecommodities market to find a loophole and take advantage of the rules.  
"Iwould say this is exercising market power. ...
If you want to charge highprices you can.
These are guys who play against each other every day.
Thereis no sort of collusion that would interest the justice department ...
."The
reason for the inquiry ordered By Gov. Gray Davis, he said, is as aconsequence of San Diego consumers being the first in the nation to paymarket-based rates for electricity.  
The high wholesale costs paid byutility San Diego Gas & Electric, a unit of Sempra Energy (SRE), were passedon to ratepayers and resulted in utility bills more than doubling.  
Gov.
Davis ordered the inquiry and asked federal regulators to conduct their owninvestigation as well.  
Dynegy (DYN)
President Steve Bergstrom also saysthat an investigation "will turn up nothing."  
So why conduct one?  
"This isa very politically charged issue," Bergstrom said.
"When something goeswrong you have to find someone to point the finger at."  
A source in thegovernor's office said Davis is aware that Attorney General Lockyer'sinvestigation may turn up nothing, but Gov. Davis "has a responsibility tohis constituents."  
Supply vs. Demand  
What the investigation will turn upis evidence that there is a shortage of power in the state and not enoughpower plants being built to meet increasing demand, said Terry Winter,chairman and chief executive officer of the California Independent SystemOperator.  
Winter said he doesn't believe that there is anything wrong
withthe way generators sell their power and 98% of the time the market workswell.  
"Is it market abuse to bid at the price cap ($250 per megawatt-hour)knowing that you're 1,000 MW short?
I have trouble identifying that asmarket power abuse," Winter said.  
Despite some proposed regulatory changes,such as bid caps on wholesale energy prices and a rate freeze for SDG&Ecustomers, Duke Energy, Dynegy, Southern Co. (SO) and Reliant (RLI) allstill plan to invest in generation in the state.  
That's a different stancethan the companies took a month ago when the ISO reduced the wholesale pricecap in the real-time market to $250/MWh.  
"
At the end of the day the marketis short power and you got to get people to build new generation," saidDynegy's Bergstrom.
"We got a big investment in California.
We're notwalking away from that."  
-By Jason Leopold, Dow Jones Newswires;323-658-3874;
jason.leopold@dowjones.com Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones &Company
Inc12:15 GMT 16 August 2000 DJ Calif ISO Urges FERC
To Reject
Pwr
Producers'Complaint(This article was originally published Tuesday)WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--California's power grid administrator Monday urgedfederal regulators to reject a complaint from power producers seekingcompensation in the event out-of-state power transactions are curtailedduring an extreme power grid emergency.
The independent system operator told the Federal Energy RegulatoryCommission that the power producers seek compensation in the event of a"situation that never has occurred any time since the ISO began operations,and if it were to occur in the future, would do so rarely."The
ISO noted that its tariff governing access to the state's grid alreadyallows for compensation in the event of curtailed exports, and decried thepower producers' complaint as "a collateral attack" on a previous FERC orderrejecting claims that the tariff failed to provide adequate compensation.
Curtailing scheduled power transactions and exports would be a last resortmeasure taken only after other options have been exhausted, the ISO said.
The power producers should adjust their contracts to factor in the risk ofinterruption in the event of a state-wide grid emergency, the ISO said.
The ISO's objections were echoed by the state's electricity distributionutilities and California regulators.
They complained that the power producers are merely trying to get out fromunder
the price controls the ISO has imposed in an effort to rein inskyrocketing power prices this summer.
The generators "knew when they purchased California power plants and whenthey entered into their export contracts that the ISO could alter theirschedules in an emergency.
For them to ask the commission to make it evenmore expensive, and hence, more difficult, for the ISO to maintain gridreliability in California
is irresponsible," said Southern CaliforniaEdison, a unit of Edison International
(EIX)."The complaint is a sham," declared the California Public UtilitiesCommission.
"The
true intent of the complaint ... is to avoid the ISO price caps bymaking sales to affiliates or cooperating entities located out of state, andsell the power back to the ISO at uncapped prices reflecting the generators'market power," the PUC said, calling for FERC to summarily reject thecomplaint.
"The
complaint is factually unsupported, legally unfounded, complains ofconduct consistent with the ISO's authority under pertinent FERC decisions,and seeks to avoid the price cap," the PUC said.
But power marketers and other power producers voiced support for thecomplaint, filed Aug. 3 by Reliant Power Generation Inc. (REI), Dynegy PowerMarketing Inc. (DYN) and Southern Energy California (SO)."By subjecting curtailed energy transactions to its maximum purchase priceof $250, and simply ignoring the financial impact on sellers, the Cal ISOwould be overtly discriminating against export transactions and marketparticipants who schedule energy for export," said the Electric Power SupplyAssociation, the national trade group representing competitive powerproducers.
"It is critical that power producers ... know with certainty that thecurtailment of scheduled energy exports by Cal ISO will be compensated,"said
Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc.
"Now
that the ISO Governing Board has lowered purchase price caps to $250,it is significantly more likely that the curtailment of exports will occurmore frequently.
Less energy will be imported into California and moreenergy will leave California in search of higher prices," said WilliamsEnergy Marketing & Trading Co. in support of the complaint's call for actualdamages and lost opportunity costs.
At least one power purchaser voiced support for the producers' position aswell.
"It seems a very basic point that if the Cal ISO must divert thetransactions of others to meet its own loads, that is should pay the fullcosts of doing so," said the Northern California Power Agency.-By Bryan Lee, Dow Jones Newswires; 202-862-6647; bryan.lee@dowjones.comCopyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company IncG_nther
A. PergherSenior AnalystDow Jones & Company Inc.
Tel.  
609.520.7067Fax.
609.452.3531The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity towhich it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privilegedmaterial.  
Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, ortaking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons orentities other than the intended recipient is prohibited.
If you receivedthis in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from anycomputer.
<<Gunther Pergher
(E-mail).vcf
>
>  
- Gunther Pergher (E-mail).vcf
