FYIFolks,Late Friday afternoon Ziad called me.  
The ISO Governing Board earlierthe same day turned down the ISO management's request to force SCs toplace 95% of their scheduled load in the DA market.  
That leaves the ISOlittle choice but to venture into the energy markets to procure
power tocover their peak hours on hot days.
Terry gave Ziad the OK to proceed with placing both the APX andCalifornia PX screens for this new product/matching-service.  
I amworking with the two vendors and the ISO to make this happen quickly.
We anticipate that the market will open on Tuesday, September 5, orearlier.
Key people who you may need to contact:ISO - Ziad Alaywan  916-351-2140
(Nancy Traweek and Jim McIntosh arealso in the loop)PX - Ken Czarnecki 626-537-3123PX - John Yurkanin
626-537-3124APX - Denice Cazalet 408-517-2123APX - Michael Heinrich 408-517-2159Please feel free to contact me with your questions.  
Several of you
havenot had the opportunity to attend the pre-design meetings we had at theCalifornia PX and APX a few weeks ago, nor were you aware of the jointWPTF/ISO meeting held last week.  
But in essence, what thisproduct/matching-service will allow you to do is post bids to sell, orbuy a 6-hour block of capacity at a firm energy price across the hoursof HE13 to HE18.  
You can bid at COB, Mead, PV, SP15 or NP15.  
You canutilize either the CalPX or APX to post your bids, because the ISO willbe watching both screens.  
The block sizes are (supposed to be)
25MW.The seller is responsible for arranging transmission to the deliverypoint, and the buyer (e.g., ISO) is responsible for arrangingtransmission service from the delivery point.  
The ISO will make itspurchase decisions for the day-of at or before 8:00 a.m.  The ISO willsend out a general notice when it needs offers to sell on the super-peakmarket.  
I expect that bids for either buy or sell will be able to beposted at any time, 24 hours.  
The screens should allow parties to postbuy or sell bids at least 60 days forward of the trade day.
You are not limited to a price cap in these markets, but the ISO as abuyer has the right to not purchase at prices above
it's price cap.
I think WPTF members should be very proud that we were able to quicklywork together, and with the ISO to create this market.
I have no doubtthe ISO will be offering bids to purchase starting Sept 5, and goingforward 60 days.  
However, who among you will be willing and able topost bids to sell?gba
