	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.     
08/11/2000 09:59
AM16:55 GMT 11 August 2000 =
DJ
Rising Electricity Prices Could Be Wild Card InJuly CPI   By Henry J. Pulizzi   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRESWASHINGTON
(Dow Jones)--Now that gasoline prices are finally settling down
,economists say another energy component could prove to be a spoiler on thegovernment's main consumer inflation gauge.
Amid a shifting regulatory landscape and typical summertime price increases,the nation's utilities appear to be boosting consumers' electricity billsenough to skew the Labor Department's July consumer price index.
Those gainswould partly offset the anticipated favorable influence of recentlydeclining gas prices.
"There
is a real chance of starling increases in electricity prices over thenext month or two, thanks mostly to the bungled deregulation of theindustry," Ian Sheperdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economicsin Valhalla, N.Y., wrote in a recent report.
"All the anecdotal evidencefrom the West and East Costs suggests consumers are reeling from suddendouble - and in some cases triple - digit percentage increases in theirbills.
"First
Union economist Mark Vitner agreed: "It is a potential trouble spot,it is a particular problem in the West."
In California, where no new powerplants have been built in a decade, the private companies that purchasedplants from the state's utilities have been raising prices in response tostrong demand and dwindling supply.
The impact of the cost increases will be revealed Wednesday, when the LaborDepartment releases the July CPI next Wednesday.
Economists generally expect the figures to point to a continued tameinflation scenario - a 0.1% overall monthly increase, featuring decliningclothing, computer and gas prices is forecast.
Labor Department economistPatrick Jackman said recent statistics suggest gas prices fell 3% to 3.5%last month.
That would mark a departure from June, when soaring prices atthe nation's gas stations contributed to a big 0.6% spike in the CPI.Rising Demand, Surging PricesBut electricity, which represents 2.5% of the entire index, will be a wildcard in the coming report.
Electricity costs usually rise in the summer as consumers pay more for thejuice that powers their air conditioners.
This summer is no different,Vitner said, adding that utilities have even more pricing power than normal.
"Overall
demand for electricity has been rising.
All this high-techequipment uses a lot of electricity," Vitner said.
Indeed, prices rose 0.8% in June after seasonal adjustments.
Before thoseadjustments, prices surged a whopping 6.6% during the month.
As for a July increase, Jackman said "it certainly is a possibility.
Thequestion is how are the seasonal factors are going to handle it."Sheperdson
, however, believes it's clear that electricity costs are on therise.
"Three factors are driving prices higher," he said.
"First, flaws inthe auction system set up after deregulation effectively allow thegenerating companies to manipulate prices at times of high demand.
Second,the economic boom means that periods of high demand are much more commonthan was anticipated at the time of deregulation, so generators have moreopportunity to extract premium prices from distributors and, hence,consumers.
Third, little new electricity-generating capacity has been addedin recent years.
"Producer
prices, which Sheperdson says provide a good guide to movements inthe CPI, may offer ominous insight into the potential consumer electricityprice gains.
Residential electric power prices on the producer level rosefaster in July than at any point since January 1991.And they aren't expected to slow down anytime soon.
August could beespecially problematic because higher electricity costs will coincide withanother pickup in gas prices and continued gains in natural gas prices,Vitner said.
"We have no idea how far the CPI measure of residential electricity pricescould rise, but there must be a good chance that substantial increases willbe recorded," Sheperdson said.
"With natural gas prices also climbing again,following a dip in July, it may take a while before energy ceases to pushinflation higher.
"-Henry J. Pulizzi; Dow Jones Newswires; 202-862-9255;henry.pulizzi@dowjones.com Copyright (c)
2000, Dow Jones & Company IncG_nther A. PergherSenior AnalystDow Jones & Company Inc.
Tel.  
609.520.7067Fax.
609.452.3531The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity towhich it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privilegedmaterial.  
Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, ortaking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons orentities other than the intended recipient is prohibited.
If you receivedthis in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from anycomputer.
<<Gunther Pergher
(E-mail).vcf
>
>  
- Gunther Pergher (E-mail).vcf
