Sorry about this gang, but my new computer messed up the e-mail list.
It's 4 am
and I think I have fixed it.  
Maybe.  
Bear with me if you aregetting this for the second time this morning.gbaTHE FRIDAY BURRITO"...more fun than a fortune cookie, and at least as accurate.
"Everyone is getting into the act.  
When I started this gig, I was theonly guy in town writing to folks like you about the power industry inCalifornia.  
I wrote about what?s
new, what?s happening, and all theimportant stuff.  
This week, Governor Gray Davis decided to write hisown Burrito.  
His epistle got more press than mine, but why is hemuscling in on my turf?  
Not to be outdone, PUC President Loretta Lynchreleased a report which looks into every facet of California?s powerbusiness.  
No stone left unturned.
I?m telling you, there isn?t enoughroom in this business for all of us.  
They need to clear out.
With people like Herr (Hair?)
Peace, Governor I?m-
Not Mr.-Rogers
Davisand Let?s
Do Lynch, who needs a Friday Burrito?  
They re-define ourreality each week with mind-numbing aplomb.  
For example, starting inearly June, the PX was ordered to compete for business against otherQualified Trading Vehicles.  
Then, two weeks later, the Energy F_hrerlegislated that idea to an early death which kept the status quo for atleast one year.  
This week the PUC approved 5-year bilateral deals forPG&E and SCE, thereby opening the PX to competition, and emasculatingthe PX?s Block Forward Market.
Zip, bam, boom.
I can?t wait to see what next week will bring.  
I hear Senator Bowen isholding Committee hearings on re regulating the industry, and theGovernor?s new Energy Security Council will meet to decide six things:
What?s for lunch?Who will sit at the head of the table?Does
anyone have good seats for next week?s
Democratic convention?Is there anyone we haven?t indicted yet in the power
industry?Who will crank up the air conditioning in this room?  
It?s getting toowarm.
Then, they will collect data from innocent businesses under subpoena,ignore the facts, and publish a report.  
It makes one want to take adeep breath, and inhale the scented fumes of democracy.
You know, I can?t think about where to begin, so let?s start somewhere.
@@@
Is there anyone left at SDG&E with a brain?
@@@
The PUC issues its scathing report @@@
The ISO invokes $250 price caps.  
Duh!
@@@ Amen for the Morgan Stanley Order
@@@
Is there anyone left at SDG&E with a brain?Well, the answer very clearly is no.  
I have been astounded by repeatedattempts of SDG&E?s most senior people to ape humans, but instead theymimic apes.
Consider the following.  
First, they waltz their default customers intothe summer with little of no protection from price spikes in thewholesale market.  
Forgivable in that it is human to err.  
The pricesskyrocket in June, and they start looking for who to blame.  
_Must bethem damn independent generators,O say their managers.  
Gary Cottoninforms the ISO Governing Board
that hedging SDG&E?s position in theBlock Forward Market wouldn?t have made any difference.  
There?s onenobel laureate who missed his prime.
Next, under pressure, they ask for help from suppliers and anyone elsewho will assist the utility and their customers.  
Nine offers show up attheir table, and they can?t choose any of them.  
Again, Mr Cotton tellshis fellow ISO Governing Board members that these things take time, andwe don?t to rush since there are many legislative barriers, and, well,the surfing was good this week
so why spoil it?Now they are in a panic because the Energy F_hrer is visiting old ladiesliving in trailer parks, advising them not to pay their SDG&Eelectricity bill, and to continue to operate their air conditioners.
SDG&E puts a full page ad in the local newspaper telling everyone thatSDG&E is doing everything it can to lower their electric bills,including asking the ISO for a $250 price cap, but the public can helpby calling the ISO [address and phone number provided in the ad] andurging them to lower the cap.  
I always thought the location of the ISOwas
a State secret for security reasons.  
No secrets in San Diego.
But we are not done.  
No sir, we are not.  
Those buffalo heads who runthat company decide they will win a gold star on their collectiveforeheads, and implement one of the four resolutions passed by theElectric Oversight Board.  
The one they pick is to petition FERC on anexpedited basis to cap at $250, the price at which sellers may bidenergy or ancillary services into the ISO and the PX.  
The primaryreason is that Western power markets are not workably competitive.  
Inother words, they want FERC to set a max price on what generators cansell in addition to the price limit at which the ISO can
buy!What
I find most astounding about this double talk
is that SDG&Econtinues to collect tons of money from the sales of regulatory must runenergy into the PX.   
These are sales from their stranded assets.  
Theirgrief hasn?t abated their greed.
So, to recap, SDG&E missed the boat on price hedging, failed to winconsumer confidence in public meetings,
asked for help from suppliersand did nothing in response, then filed at FERC to cap the sale pricebecause the wholesale market into which they sell (over-priced?)
energyis not workably competitive.  
Too much time in the direct sun light.
@@@
The PUC issues its scathing reportThe PUC report released yesterday is a gem with which I have not spentenough time.  
I only read the Executive Summary, and that only becauseour counsel, Dan Douglass forwarded me a copy.
Let me pick out some ofthe gems in President Lets Do Lynch?s burrito.  
I would recommendreading the whole text if you have time, and if you seek perverseentertainment._California is experiencing major problems with electricity supply andpricing caused by policies and procedures adopted over the past tenyears.
_
Since June, wholesale prices for electrical power in California haveincreased on average 270% over the same period in 1999, resulting inover $1 billion in excess   payments for electricity._Hot weather, aging power plant and transmission infrastructure, anddysfunctional bidding behavior in the wholesale power markets combinedto drive prices up ...
_
Because of serious market defects and tight supply of electricity,purchasers of California power will likely pay billions more inelectricity costs this year.
Moreover, these price increases do notnecessarily fund new investments in electricity supply or deliveryreliability - they may flow solely to power producer profit margins._Despite
the Electricity Oversight Board's legislative mandate tooversee those institutions
, we have been unable to obtain [bid] data.
Nevertheless, ... , we believe enough evidence of questionable behaviorexists that the Attorney General should conduct an investigation intothese statewide market practices, coordinating with other Stateagencies, including the PUC and the EOB.
Such an investigation wouldprovide the factual foundation that California policy makers andregulators need to recover any illegally obtained profits._A momentous consequence of California's attempt to create a market inelectricity
is that the federal government now regulates California'selectric system.
Washington D.C. now controls pricing decisions directlyat the wholesale level and indirectly at the retail level and, to theextent that supply incentives are correlated to prices, Washington, D.C.now affects California's ability to attract new investment in powerplants._Past administrations' willingness to cede the State's authority to thefederal government combined with the legislative creation of twonon-public supervisory organizations that have no duty to protect thepublic or consider the retail customer.
The "Independent SystemOperator" (ISO) and the "Power Exchange" (PX), the nonprofit privatecorporations that operate the State's transmission system and controlwholesale pricing policies, are governed by boards whose members canhave serious conflicts of interest.
Some of these board members or theircompanies financially benefit from higher prices in electricity markets.
Neither of these private organizations is accountable to the State
orits consumers ....
_
Despite the federalization and the fragmentation of the State'selectric services, the State of California should protect its businessesand consumers from cartel pricing; collusive behavior; inadequate powerplant maintenance and lack of market planning for adequate electricitysupplies._California consumers and businesses deserve to know in advance -
as SanDiegans did not this summer - how and when the price of an essentialservice like electricity will double.
California is now largelyconstrained by federal mandates from providing comprehensive retailprice relief as long as wholesale prices remain so high.
If Californiatried to re-impose a price freeze in San Diego now, federal regulatorswould likely prevent that action.  
... Short-term price relief, however,cannot resolve market gaming or fundamental wholesale pricing problemscontrolled by federal regulators.
_
We have been precluded from obtaining the data necessary to know ifthe
ISO and PX failed to detect manipulation and gaming on severalfronts.
We do not know how market players acted in price offering andbidding and scheduling.
The FERC has just announced an inquiry intonational pricing and energy market issues.
California should not waitfor national findings before it investigates California marketpractices.
We recommend that the California Attorney General immediatelysubpoena relevant records and data to determine the pricing and offeringbehavior of market participants; the actions of the ISO and its boardmembers; and the actions of generators in supplying California's energyneeds._Ten Actions to Consider or Act Upon to Prevent Current ElectricityProblems From Spreading in 2001: ...     2.
Create a California Energy Council, modeled on the National     Security Council, to unify State action to resolve energy     problems and to perform integrated energy planning;     3.
Ask FERC for extended wholesale price cap authority to     moderate California wholesale market pricing;     4.
Ask FERC to recognize the defects in the California and     western regional markets and find that no competitive market     exists in California power markets;...      8.
Eliminate potential conflicts of interest in ISO/PX     stakeholder boards;     9.
Improve California's ability to obtain ISO and generator     data and enhance the State's enforcement capability for power     plant maintenance; price manipulation and generation gaming,     consistent with protection of proprietary business     information;     10.
Provide the EOB with effective enforcement ability and     additional oversight authority for the ISO and
PX._Ten Issues to Consider or Act Upon Within the Next Six Months: ...     4.
Streamline state power plant siting procedures; consistent     with environmental requirements, and prioritize applications     to advance clean, BACT+ power plant proposals.     
5.
Institute "use-
it -or-
lose
-it" permitting power plant     licensing and emissions credits rules to ensure power plants     get built;     ...      
8.
Reform PX pricing protocols and structures to lower     wholesale and retail prices and reduce excess profitsOI told you I don?t need to write a Burrito anymore.  
The Democrats inSacramento are doing that for me.  
Welcome comrade.
@@@
The ISO invokes $250 price caps.  
Duh!It is really hard to describe the drama of an ISO Governing Boardmeeting, especially when our favorite topic arises.  
It seems the onlytime the Board becomes animated is when one of three issues are on theagenda: price caps, FTRs, and priorities for software enhancements.
Otherwise, its pretty much hum-drum.%Round and %round we went, once again.  
A few more forced votes tippedthe scale in favor of the cap.  
There were 15 yes votes, which includeda forced yes vote from our friend Jerry Toenyes by order of Secretary ofEnergy Mr. Richardson.
[Jerry, did you realize that the last letters ofyour name could be re-arranged to spell _NO ET YESO?  
Kind of a frenchthing.]
I?m sorry about that vote, Jerry.  
You still go in my book asone of the brave and bold for standing up to that sort of intimidationfor so long.  
Your picture in the SF Chron said it all.
The brave souls who stood tall and voted NO included David Parquet(Enron), Jan Smutny-Jones (IEP), Barbara Barkovich (CLECA),
CaolynKehrein (CMA), Dan Kirshner (EDF), and Stacy Roscoe (Procter & Gamble).Now
, I must admit that Dynegy?s Greg Blue did help by voting a Texas No,spelled
_A-B-S-T-A-I-NO.   
I have instructed Dynegy trader Dave Francisin Houston to work with Greg to correct that problem.  
We?re going towork things out.
The Energy F_hrer addressed the Board, again.  
I
didn?t
mind that I onlyhad a few brief, very brief moments to address the Board, and Herr(Hair?)
Peace got over 20 minutes.  
That didn?t bother me at all.  
Hedid more damage to himself in 20 than I could do in 2.  
He blasted awayat everyone who opposed him.  
He pined about Camden quitting the Board.
He said he knew how prices and markets work, that it isn?t
the way thoseacademic egg-head, FERC-loving economists tell you who pray to the godsof competition.  
He lambasted WAPA for withholding generation to protectfish and wildlife
(what was that all about?).  
He predicted that onThursday?s
PUC meeting he and all the other powerful Democrats,Republicans and angry citizens of San Diego would demand that the PUCimpose a rate cap on retail electric rates in San Diego that are justand reasonable (it didn?t happen).  
And on and on and on.  
This man isvery delusional.
He believes that Steve, and only Steve Peace can savethe world.  
He believes that political will trumps judicial,quasi-judicial, or independent Board actions.  
This man makes relevantall the abstract musings of the philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche(1844-1900) ...
The will to power, the ?
bermensch, the transvaluation ofvalues, etc.
But we are getting under (uber?)
his skin, with the help of the press.
Wednesday afternoon I called Commissioner Dick Bilas to see if hethought whether the next day?s PUC meeting was going to be a roll over.
Dick said he got a call from Peace, and that Peace said he would notcome to the meeting.  
Apparently, Peace had received a lot of press, andall of it bad.
That?s the thin line of freedom which keeps tyranny at least one stepaway from our front door.
@@@ Amen for the Morgan Stanley OrderAnd
now, the good news.  
You deserve this.  
FERC gave the Californiamarket a little wiggle room last Friday.  
FERC issued a last minutereply to the complaint by Morgan Stanley Capital Group relating to theISO?s intent to lower the price cap.  
FERC denied the complaint, butthey didn?t waste time with an Order to simply deny a complaint.  
FERCdanced on the head of the ISO and pulled the bite out of the price cap.
Here are some excerpts:_We accepted this [Amendment 21], not because it was a cap on sellers?prices
but because it would promote order and transparency in the marketby clearly telling sellers of the maximum price the ISO was willing topay and allowing sellers to make informed economic choices on whether tosell in the ISO market or to sell elsewhere...
_ ...
The ISO has no more or less ability to procure capacity and energythan any other buyer of these services ...
If the ISO is unable toelicit sufficient supplies at or below its announced purchase priceceiling (because generators are free to sell elsewhere if they choose),it will have to raise its purchase price to the level necessary to meetits needs. ...
Therefore, an increase in out-of-market (OOM) calls forgeneration may be necessary to maintain system reliability.  
Because thecurrent payment for OOM is not subject to a maximum purchase price, theresulting overall payments may be higher._To the extent
the ... ISO Board resolution contemplates implementing adirective that generators must bid their capacity into the ISO marketsunder any circumstances (e.g., when system load exceeds 38,000 MW), sucha requirement is not permitted by our ... Order and the ISO tariff. ...
Future implementation of the ISO Board resolution with regard to arequirement to sell would require significant revisions to the ISOmarket rules.  
Such market changes could not become effective absent acorresponding amendment to the ISO tariff which would have to be filedunder section 205 of the FPA.OWell.
What do you think about that?Just wait.  
Here is what the sleeping bear, Commissioner Hebert said inhis concurring remarks:_Getting to the bottom of the problem, in my view, requires us to begina proceeding to rescind our approval of the ISO as the operator of theCalifornia grid.  
The record supports such a move. ...
A memorandum tothe ISO from a stakeholder who resigned from the governing boardeloquently brings to our attention repeated attempts to undermine theindependence of the ISO.
The memorandum also thoughtfully outlinesconsequences to the markets of a return to %command and control.?_Because
these allegations come from a non-market participant,especially should we take heed.  
We must also take notice of the publicpressure on the Board to compromise its independence.
OAmen, brother, amen.
As you can imagine, this week, like an endless string of weeks beforethis has been interminable.  
I get about three phone calls a day frompress reporters, very little of which ever sees print.  
My shtick isjust too complex for casual readers.  
But I do notice that the reportersare asking better questions.  
The public is becoming more savvy.  
Theinformation flow is moving in our favor, and will disarm the forces ofevil, in about 10 years.
I have other problems on my mind.  
I am working on a new computersystem.  
Really, it?s just an upgrade of an older computer that is a bitfaster than the laptop I tried to upgrade, very unsuccessfully.  
As aresult of the all the new hardware and software I purchased, my officelooks like a war zone with an odd mix of PUC service copies, computerdocumentation, and diskettes laying all around.
Quite a mess.
Prepare for the future.  
Our next general meeting is scheduled forThursday and Friday, October 5 and 6 at Moro Bay.  
Barb Ennis willprepare a blurb for us in next week?s
Burrito about room reservations,timing, golf, etc.  
Our guest speakers will include MSC ChairmanProfessor Frank Wolak who will talk on the subject of his choice, Ms.
Irene Moosen of Grueneich Resource Advocates who will make apresentation on the distributed generation case before the PUC,
andWilliam Freddo of PG&E National Energy Group who will give us someeducation on operating a power plant inside the New England ISO.Now for your daily bread, provided this week by Dan Douglass.  
Last weekwe had a joke about Catholics.  
This week it?s agnostics.=====================An atheist was taking a walk thru the woods, admiring all that theaccident  of evolution had created.  
"What majestic trees!  
Whatpowerful rivers!
What  beautiful animals!"  
he said to himself.
As he was walking alongside the river he heard a rustling in the bushesbehind him.  
As he turned to look, he saw a 7 foot grizzly bearcharging  towards him.
He ran as fast as he could up the path.  
Helooked over his  shoulder and saw that the bear was closing in on him.
He tried to run even  faster, so scared that tears were coming to hiseyes.
His heart was pumping  frantically as he tried to run even faster,but he tripped and fell on the  ground.  
He rolled over to pick himselfup and saw the bear right on top of  him raising its paw to kill him.
At that instant he cried out "
Oh my God!"
And time stopped.
The bearfroze.  
The forest was silent.  
The river even stopped flowing.  
Abright light shone  upon the man, and a voice out of the sky said, "Youdeny my existence all  these years, teach others I don't exist and evencredit my creation to a  cosmic accident, and now do you expect me tohelp you out of this  predicament?  
Am I to count you as a believer?"The atheist, ever so proud, looked into the light and said, "It would berather hypocritical to ask to be counted as a believer after all theseyears,  but could you make the bear a believer?""Very well" said the voice.
And the light went out, the river flowed,the  sounds of the forest continued, and the bear brought both pawstogether,  bowed his head, and said, "Lord, I thank you for this foodwhich I am about  to receive.
"==================Amen.  
And have a great weekend.  
Oh, and thanks to all of you who sentme happy birthday wishes.  
It was very much appreciated.
KSBgba - att1.htm
