	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.<IMCEAEX-_O=CAISO_OU=CORPORATE_CN=SYSTEM_CN=MARKETOPSHOURAHEAD@caiso.com>                           07/31/2000
04:24 AMDEVIATIONS JULY 31, 2000This notice is to advise all Scheduling Coordinators and owners ofGeneration in the ISO Control Area that the ISO is issuing an operatingorder for July 31, 2000, that all resources must follow final Hour AheadSchedules, as adjusted by RMR Dispatch Notices, or by Dispatch instructionsverbal or electronic, on Ancillary Service or Supplemental Energy bids.  
NOUNINSTRUCTED DEVIATIONS WILL BE ALLOWED.  
Section 2.3.1.2.1 of the ISOTariff requires Market Participants in the ISO Control Area to "comply fullyand promptly with the ISO's operating orders."
Any Generating Unit with realtime output that reflects an excessive deviation from the real time outputconsistent with its Final Hour Ahead Schedule as adjusted by Dispatchinstructions, and assuming a 20 minute ramp across the top of the hour forhourly Schedule changes, will be deemed to have failed to comply with thisoperating order.  
For the purpose of this determination, an excessivedeviation shall be the smaller of 10% of a Generating Unit's maximumcapability, or 10 MW.  
The only exception to this finding is a GeneratingUnit that provides the ISO with timely notification of a unit outage orderate.
Failure to comply with this operating order threatens the reliableoperation of the ISO Control Area.  
In particular, uninstructed incrementaldeviations by Generating Units that are "chasing" the BEEP Interval Pricespublished by the ISO are directly responsible for the frequency excursionsthe ISO experienced  June 13, 2000.
The ISO will take the following actionswith respect to those Generating Units that fail to comply with thisOperating Order: 1) ISO Management will deliver a report to the ISOGoverning Board that provides a copy of this notice, and a comparison of theinstructed and actual output profile for each Generating Unit that fails tocomply.
2)
The ISO will assign any WSCC RMS penalties associated withfrequency deviations to the Generating Units that fail to comply.
