  Market Participants:  
The ISO has posted the following materials regarding CAISO'sCongestion
Management Reform
(CMR) Recommendation.  
Congestion Management Reform Recommendation (This is thesame as the version posted on July 11th with the exception that we havecorrected typographical errors.)  
Appendix A - Terminology and
Acronyms A glossary of variousterms and acronyms used throughout the CMR Recommendation package.  
Appendix B - Locational Price Dispersion
Study Summarizesthe areas of empirical study in which the ISO is currently engaged anddescribes the objective, design, and preliminary results of the ISO'sanalysis of the dispersion of locational prices throughout the ISO controlarea.  
Appendix D - Assessment of CMR Design Recommendation withRespect to Stakeholder Evaluation Criteria Compares the CMR
Recommendationagainst the specific evaluation criteria agreed to by the ISO and MarketParticipants at the first stakeholder meetings.  
Appendix E - Congestion Management Redesign Options NotAdopted in the CMR Recommendation  
Appendix G - System Impacts Summarizes the anticipatedimpact of CMR Recommendation on the ISO's primary systems, such as SI/SA,BBS, FTR, EMS, etc.  
The purpose of this appendix is not to provide detailedcost-benefit evaluation of the proposal, which we believe would be entirelysubjective and of little value.  
Appendix H - Intra-Zonal Congestion Management MitigationCosts
During 1999  and Their Application to Local Reliability Areas.  
It is our intent to publicly distribute Appendix C, asidentified below, by mid August.  
In the final draft of  the recommendation package, to be publicly distributed andprovided to the Board in late August, we will  provide the following additional appendices as well asupdated versions of those identified above.  
Appendix C - Market Separation Study
The objectives, design,and preliminary results of the other ongoing study being undertaken inconnection with the Congestion Management Reform process.  
Appendix F - Summary of Stakeholder Comments of CaliforniaISO Congestion Management Proposals
A summary of all stakeholder commentsreceived to date on the various proposals and concepts incorporated intothis recommendation package.  
You can find these Appendices along with the originalproposal and feedback form  athttp://www.caiso.com/clientserv/congestionreform.html.  
Byron Woertz  Director, Client Relations
