  Market Participants:  
The California ISO values Stakeholders' comments on theCongestion Management Reform (CMR) proposal released on July 11, 2000.  
Bothyour positive and negative responses are essential to guide us in refiningthe CMR recommendation.  
We have prepared the attached template for you touse in submitting your comments.  
Receiving your comments in this formatwill enable us to understand and respond to your input efficiently.  
We willalso post this template athttp://www.caiso.com/clientserv/congestionreform.html<http://www.caiso.com/clientserv/congestionreform.html
>  under the heading"Congestion Management Reform Recommendation - DRAFT.
"  
In the first section, we ask that you respond to thefollowing two questions (summary answers, bulleted lists, etc.
are fine):1.
Which fundamental market design features and principles identifiedin the proposal should be kept?  
Why?2.
Which fundamental market design features and principles identifiedin the proposal should be removed?  
Why?  
In the second section, please provide detailed comments onspecific sections of the proposal using the template provided.  
We havestructured the template to facilitate your detailed comments on Sections 4,7, 8, 9 and 10 and Appendices A and B, since these are the sections thatcontain the main features of the proposal.  
The template also includes aspace for general comments on sections 1, 2, 3, 5 and 11.  
Since Section 6is an overview of the proposal, we have not included a comment section inthe template for that section.  
We ask that comments include:*
Which main features you think should be retained and why;
* Which main features you think should be removed or modified.  
Pleasebe specific on why, and how you would modify that feature to address theproblem you have identified; and*
Which features and details you think are missing and should beadded,
why, and how you suggest adding that feature.  
All three parts-what, why and how you recommend changing theproposal-are necessary for us to respond to your comments.  
We would like to emphasize our need to receive your commentson features of the proposal that you like.  
Reviews can tend to focus onfeatures with which reviewers are dissatisfied.  
Without hearing support forfeatures that stakeholders like, it is possible that some broadly supportedfeatures could be changed or eliminated, based on others' stateddisagreement.  
Please submit your initial comments by 5:00 p.m. PDT onFriday, July 28.  
There will be other opportunities for feedback, but wewould like to include a summary of Stakeholders' initial comments in ourdiscussion with the ISO Governing Board on August 1.  
Please send yourcomments, using the attached template, via e-mail to bwoertz@caiso.com<mailto:bwoertz@caiso.com>  and use the phrase "CMR Proposal - StakeholderComments" in the Subject line.  
We plan to treat your comments as public andto include a summary of Stakeholders' comments with the materials that willgo to the ISO Governing Board and/or to FERC.  
The California ISO greatly appreciates the time, effort andexpertise Stakeholders have contributed to the CMR process.  
We look forwardto receiving your valuable comments to allow us to further refine andimprove this proposal.   
<<000714
Stakeholder Feedback Template.doc
>
>  
Byron Woertz  Director, Client Relations - 000714
Stakeholder Feedback
Template.doc
