	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.     06/08/2000 01:10
PM17:46
GMT  8 June 2000
*
DJ Calif. PUC Approves Utilities
Buying Pwr
Out Of
CalPX Mandatory Buy Requirement Ends For Utilities LOS ANGELES
(Dow Jones)--The California Public Utilities Commissionapproved a controversial plan Thursday morning that will allow the state's three investor-owned utilities to buy power outsidethe Caliifornia Power Exchange market structure.
The commission voted 3 to 2 in favor of the measure.
Commissioners HenryDuque, Richard A. Bilas and Josiah Neeper voted in favor of the draft order.
The decision relieves the three investor-owned utilities, Sempra Energyunit San Diego Gas & Electric (SRE), Pacific Gas & Electric (PCG) and Edison International unit Southern California Edison(EIX), from their mandatory buy requirement that became effective in March 1998 when the state moved to a deregulatedcompetitive market.
Originally the mandatory buy requirement was set to end in 2002, when all three utilities recoveredtheir stranded costs.
"
This decision is not as earth shattering as it sounds," CommissionerBilas, one of the author's of the draft order, said at Thursday's meeting.
"I am not criticizing the power exchange.
But this willresult in lower prices patched through to bundled customers."
Trading platforms likw Automated Power Exchange and the New York MercantileExchange can now compete directly with the CalPX, which currently controls 85% of the state's wholesale power market.
The utilities can buy power from other "qualified exchanges" through an advice letter process.
Utilities Can Trade With Other Exchanges
Now California's big three utilities can buy power outside the CalPX marketstructure immediately, through an advice letter process, which means the utilities have to notify the commission of their intent totrade power with qualified exchanges such as APX, Nymex or Bloomberg.
The commission said the exchanges have to offer the same services as theCalPX - forward, daily and monthly trading, and anonymity to prevent self dealing between the buy side and sell side - inorder to meet the criteria for a qualified exchange.
Exchanges would also have to be independently owned from the utilities.
Enron Online would not meet the criteria for a qualified exchange, commissioners said.
The advice letter only needs to be filed once and s merely a formality thatwould not need to be approved by a majority of the commission.
Mark Huffman, PG&E senior attorney for regulatory affairs, told Dow JonesNewswires that his company "will quickly start looking at other exchanges and see what's out there.
We're going to startthe advice letter process."
SoCal Edison and SDG&E said they will do the same.
Ed Cazalet, chairman and founder of APX, said Thursday's controversialthree-to-two vote in favor of the draft order "creates a tremendous opportunity for APX."
"It allows us to bring the benefits of Silicon Valley technology toCalifornia," Cazalet said.
"This is really about bringing e-commerce to the market."
E. Jesus Arredondo, however, disagreed, saying "selling into our marketdoesn't cost anything and selling into the APX market costs 20 cents per megawatt-hour."
Commissioner said having other exchanges will not only result in lowerelectricity prices, but it will allow the buyer and seller the chance to see prices before making the purchase.
CalPX's block forward prices are not immediately published, CommissionerBilas said.
Reacting to the ruling, CalPX Chief Executive Officer George Sladoje
said"Today's split vote by the CPUC in favor of accelerating the introduction of other qualified exchanges is notwell-reasoned and it may in the end prove counterproductive."
-By
Jason Leopold; Dow Jones Newswires (323)
658-3874;jason.leopold@dowjones.com
Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company IncG_nther A. PergherSenior AnalystDow Jones & Company Inc.
Tel.  
609.520.7067Fax.
609.452.3531The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity towhich it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privilegedmaterial.  
Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, ortaking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons orentities other than the intended recipient is prohibited.
If you receivedthis in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from anycomputer.
<<Gunther Pergher
(E-mail).vcf
>
>  
- Gunther Pergher (E-mail).vcf
