	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.     08/23/2000 12:26
PM18:43
GMT  
23 August 2000
*DJ Calif Assembly Delays SDG&E Rate Roll-Back Vote
To Thu Question About Who Will Pay Elec Bills NEW YORK
(Dow Jones)--The California State Assembly has postponed untilThursday a vote on restoring electricity rates for customers of San Diego Gas &Electric Co. to pre-deregulation levels, according to a spokesman for Assemblywoman SusanDavis (D-San Diego), who is sponsoring the bill.
The bill was sent to the assembly's appropriations committee because some representatives are concerned about who - if not SDG&E customers - will payfor electricity in the city this summer and past spring.
The difference betweenwhat SDG&E customers would pay under the legislation and what SDG&E is paying forsupplies in the skyrocketing electricity markets has been estimated at $1.5 billion.
Assembly Passage Of Measure Uncertain
The legislation would roll back electricity rates to June 1, 1999, levelsfor customers of SDG&E, a unit of Sempra Energy (SRE).
This spring and summer, the utility's customers have received electricity bills that are nearly triple what theywere last year.
Electricity rates for the state's other utilities haven't been deregulatedyet, so their customers are receiving fixed prices per kilowatt-hour of power used.
Prospects for passage of the bill, AB 2290, are unclear in the Assembly.
The California State Senate passed the bill unanimously last week.
But it would need 54votes to pass through the 80-member Assembly before Gov. Gray Davis could considersigning it into law.
If all 47 Democrats approve the measure, it would need at least sevenRepublican votes to pass.
But, as reported Tuesday, only three Republican lawmakers saidthey would support the bill.
The rollback would provide some economic relief to SDG&E's 1.1 millioncustomers, who have been paying market-based rates for electricity since June.
If therollback is approved, utility bills for residential customers would be about $55 to $60a month, according to SDG&E. Steve Maviglio, press secretary to Davis, said the governor hasn't decidedwhether he would sign the bill into law if approved.
Monday, the state's Public Utilities Commission rejected a proposal to rollback rates, instead approving a stabilization rate plan that would reduce the cost ofelectricity to about $68 a month for residential customers who conserve usage.
-By
Mark Golden, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-4604;mark.golden@dowjones.com Copyright (c)
2000, Dow Jones & Company IncG_nther A. PergherSenior AnalystDow Jones & Company Inc.
Tel.  
609.520.7067Fax.
609.452.3531The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity towhich it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privilegedmaterial.  
Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, ortaking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons orentities other than the intended recipient is prohibited.
If you receivedthis in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from anycomputer.
<<Gunther Pergher
(E-mail).vcf
>
>  
- Gunther Pergher (E-mail).vcf
