	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.     08/16/2000
08:16
AM15:13 GMT
16 August 2000 DJ Calif ISO Exceeded $250 Cap
In Off-system Buys-Sources NEW YORK
(Dow Jones)--The California Independent System Operator had to paymore than its stated maximum price of $250 a megawatt-hour this week due toshort supplies of electricity in the western U.S. amid high air-conditioningdemand, according to market sources.
Under its price cap rules, the ISO is allowed to exceed its cap in"out-of-market" purchases, which is when it purchases power in dealsarranged directly with sellers over the phone, rather than through its usualcomputer-based purchasing system.
The current cap was lowered to $250/MWhfrom $500/MWh starting August 7.The ISO wouldn't confirm that it had to pay more than $250 Monday.
"We're not going to reveal whether this is happening, or at what price,"spokeswoman
Stephanie McCorkel told Dow Jones Newswires. "
For the sake ofprotecting consumers, we will keep our price strategy confidiential.
But anyout-of-market purchase above the cap is very rare.
"On
Sunday, the ISO agreed to pay about $350/MWh at Palo Verde to a southwestutility for on-peak Monday power, according to a trader for the utility, whospoke on the condition of anonymity.
Bilateral trades not involving the ISOwere done as high as $375/MWh Monday afternoon in the real-time market.
Other market sources said that the ISO exceeded its cap again Tuesdayafternoon, when several major California generating units were be taken offline for unplanned repairs, and the real-time market rose to $500/MWh forone hour at Palo Verde.
Those purchases couldn't be confirmed with sellers.
According to its price cap rule, "Such reduced cap shall not apply toout-of-market calls placed by management to out-of-state generatorresources.
"Some market participants say that regular out-of-market purchases above$250/MWh could persuade suppliers to not offer power to the ISO via itscomputer-based system, which has plateaued at $250/MWh for most of bothMonday and Tuesday afternoons.
And owners of generating stations in California say there is nojustification for giving preferential treatment to out-of-state generators.
-Mark
Golden; Dow Jones Newswires 201-938-4604; mark.golden@dowjones.comCopyright
(c)
2000, Dow Jones & Company IncG_nther A. PergherSenior AnalystDow Jones & Company Inc.
Tel.  
609.520.7067Fax.
609.452.3531The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity towhich it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privilegedmaterial.  
Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, ortaking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons orentities other than the intended recipient is prohibited.
If you receivedthis in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from anycomputer.
<<Gunther Pergher
(E-mail).vcf
>
>  
- Gunther Pergher (E-mail).vcf
