	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.     08/15/2000 06:33
AM12:15 GMT 15 August 2000DJ Calif Pwr Producers Urge FERC Reject Price Cap Petition  
(This articlewas originally published Monday)  WASHINGTON
(Dow Jones)--California powerproducers urged federal regulators Monday to reject a petition for pricecaps in the state, arguing that intervention in the market would becounterproductive by discouraging needed investment in new power supplies.
The petition was filed Aug. 2 with the U.S. Federal Energy RegulatoryCommission by San Diego Gas & Electric Co., a unit of Sempra Energy
(SRE).It alleges that California's first-in-the-nation competitive power marketsuffers from design and structural problems.  
Surging power prices plaguingthe state this summer
"do not reflect legitimate forces of supply anddemand," SDG&E said, calling on FERC to impose across-the-board electricityprice caps in California of $250 per megawatt-hour indefinitely until themarket flaws are corrected.  
But the power producers rejected SDG&E'sanalysis of the market problems as "simplistic," and called the impositionof price caps on all California power sales an unwarranted response to thepower supply shortage.  
"SDG&E asks the commission to take unreasonable andunprecedented action that would effectively rescind every Californiasupplier's authority to sell energy and ancillary services at market-basedrates," complained Southern Energy California, a subsidiary of Southern Co.(SO).  
"A strict cap will only exacerbate the current supply shortages inCalifornia," Southern Energy and the other power suppliers argued.  
"Theimposition of this cap by FERC may discourage power developers from choosingto serve California markets," said Dynegy Power Marketing Inc. (DYN).  
"Thecap may also convince (electricity users they) need not participate inload-reduction programs, since paying the $250 price cap is cheaper thanshedding load," Dynegy told the commission.  
"The imposition of caps onevery California market, and the increased uncertainty as to when - if ever-
they might be removed, sends precisely the wrong message to potentialsuppliers of energy in California," Southern Energy said.  
The arguments ofthe
individual power producers in the state were echoed by the ElectricPower Supply Association, the national trade group representing competitivepower producers and marketers.  
Imposing price caps in California's volatileelectricity prices would "suffocate markets" and do nothing to address thechronic power-supply shortages causing prices to spike
, EPSA told FERC."The relief SDG&E seeks would actually prolong and intensify California'sdifficulties," EPSA said.  
Price caps would discourage electricity importsand investment in new power plants to supply the state, while discouragingprice risk management, liquidity and accurate price signals, EPSA said.
FERC has already allowed the California Independent System Operator to capthe price
it is willing to pay for power, which it uses to assure the gridoperates properly and to make up "energy imbalances" on the system.  
The ISOrecently lowered its purchase price cap to $250 per megawatt-hour.
The SDG&Epetition asks FERC to extend that cap to the state's power exchange, or PX,which operates as a clearinghouse for wholesale power sales in California.
"A PX bid cap is unnecessary because the ISO purchase price cap hashistorically acted as a de facto cap on the PX markets," Dynegy told FERC.-By Bryan Lee, Dow Jones Newswires; 202-862-6647; bryan.lee@dowjones.comCopyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company IncG_nther A. PergherSenior AnalystDow Jones & Company Inc.
Tel.  
609.520.7067Fax.
609.452.3531The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity towhich it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privilegedmaterial.  
Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, ortaking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons orentities other than the intended recipient is prohibited.
If you receivedthis in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from anycomputer.
<<Gunther Pergher
(E-mail).vcf
>
>  
- Gunther Pergher (E-mail).vcf
