	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.     08/08/2000 11:34
AM17:25 GMT 8 August 2000 =
DJ Power Price Cap In Calif Puts Brinksmanship OnGrid   By Mark Golden   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRESNEW YORK
(Dow Jones)--California's new, lower cap on the price of wholesalepower is intended to bring relief to consumers burned by this summer'shigh-flying electricity rates.
But it has also set the stage for a game of chicken between utilities andpower producers - with the operator of the state's power grid caught in themiddle and a major blackout the consequence if both sides hold their courseon a hot day.
By creating incentives for power producers and power buyers to wait on thesidelines, the price cap has put the California Independent System Operatorin the position of covering much of the state's power demand at the lastminute - something the grid operator was never intended to do.
"It's not designed to handle a third of the load, and it's not designed tobe
the arbitrage tool for either those buying electricity or those supplyingit," Jan Smutny-Jones, chairman of the ISO's board of governors, said of theISO's real-time power market.
"For the ISO to find 15,000 MW of power on anygiven day is a huge undertaking that puts a tremendous amount of pressure onthe real-time operation of the grid.
We're going to be in trouble.
"Thanks
to a break in this summer's high temperatures in California, the ISOmanaged to find the power it needed Monday and bought it under the new pricecap of $250 a megawatt-hour.
It also looks to be able to make it throughTuesday.
But the real test could come with higher temperatures forecast for Wednesdayand Thursday - or whenever the next heat wave comes.
The state's power grid is run by the ISO, established by the state'slegislature to ensure that California's utilities were getting enough powerto meet their customer needs.
Utilities typically buy most of the power they need a day in advance basedon weather forecasts and system capacity.
A different state-charteredorganization, the California Power Exchange buys most of the power theutilities need one day ahead of time.
The ISO is supposed plug unexpected gaps by purchasing marginal amounts ofpower on a last-minute basis as necessary.
But the price cap is changing the way the game is played.
Prices in the ISO's real-time market are capped at $250 a megawatt-hour.
Butprices in the CalPX's day-ahead market are uncapped and free to skyrocket.
As a result, California's main utilities - PG&E Corp. (PCG) unit Pacific Gas& Electric, Edison International (EIX) unit Southern California Edison andSempra Energy (SRE) unit San Diego Gas & Electric - will buy only thosesupplies available on the day-ahead market that are bid at the ISO cap orless.
That policy makes sense - electricity is widely regarded as the mostvolatile commodity in existence, prices can rise 100-fold in a matter ofdays and California's prices are about four times their level last summer.
But it isn't the most sustainable.
Grid Operator Left To Cover Large ShortfallOn
Monday, for example, the California PX reported that the utilities boughtall the power suppliers bid in below the price cap, a total of 27,500megawatts of supply for peak afternoon hours.
But as the sun rose over the California sky and air conditioners ramped up,the three utilities needed 40,000 megawatts of power to meet demand -leaving the ISO not just to tweak the system, but to buy almost a third ofwhat was required.
"It makes it a lot harder for our people to operate the system," ISOspokesman Patrick Dorinson said.
On Monday, the ISO had to leave its official, computer-based market andscramble to secure needed power supplies from neighboring utilities bytelephone, as it has done numerous times this summer.
The question for California is whether independent generating companies andutilities outside the state will sell their power to the state at or belowthe $250 price cap, or whether they'll be able to sell their output for ahigher price elsewhere.
Like much of the rest of the country, the western U.S. now needs moreelectricity during summer afternoons than it can generate.
The boomingelectricity-driven new economy has been met with almost no additions togenerating capacity.
Companies that have generating capacity are looking fortop dollar.
"Our
real-time folks' job is to optimize revenue and get the highest pricefor that energy that they can," said Larry Bryant, spokesman for the PublicService Co. of New Mexico (PNM), which regularly sells power to California.
"There is no preference of customer.
There's preference for maximizing therevenue that hour of that day.
"The
$250 cap, half what it was until Monday and a third of what it was untilJuly 1, is well under prices the western wholesale power market has seenfrequently this summer.
The ISO has the authority to break its own cap if necessary to keep thelights on, but doing so could make a shambles of the state's official powermarket.
Traders at utilities with excess power to sell say they will have noincentive to bid in supply on the ISO's computer system at prices under thecap if they know the ISO will be picking up the phone later with sweeterdeals.
"At
10 a.m. the ISO operators have to run around and find a sufficientamount of capacity in the West to serve our needs, and on some days therereally is only a limited amount of capacity to go around," Smutny-Jonessaid.
"We're going to have figure out a better way of managing this," he added.-Mark Golden, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-4604; mark.golden@dowjones.comCopyright
(c)
2000, Dow Jones & Company IncG_nther A. PergherSenior AnalystDow Jones & Company Inc.
Tel.  
609.520.7067Fax.
609.452.3531The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity towhich it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privilegedmaterial.  
Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, ortaking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons orentities other than the intended recipient is prohibited.
If you receivedthis in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from anycomputer.
<<Gunther Pergher
(E-mail).vcf
>
>  
- Gunther Pergher (E-mail).vcf
