put this into the congestion redesign file if you haven't alread.
Carl has been working with Enron and others and the ISO to develop a model that works for CA as well as for the Desert Southwest (which the ISO would then operate).  
I think this summary explains the kinds of things were trying to get in congestion management reform.  
I'll send a few other things to look at.
Ziad:
Per our conversation this morning, attached is a summary of what I view to be the key attributes of a "reformed" zonal congestion model.  
The document does not fully address all of the issues discussed at last Thursday's congestion reform meeting in Sacramento, but I believe that (other than for some details) it is consistent with what both the ISO and many of the market participants are proposing.
This summary does not necessarily reflect the views of my clients, who haven't yet had the time to review it...
but I don't believe that it would be too far off.  
I am sending this summary to you to put into context the many comments that I offered at last Thursday's meeting and also to support my view that, if the ISO were to implement the CONG/ASM integration by DECENTRALIZING the process rather than CENTRALIZING the process, there would not be much difference between what I've been advocating in the Southwest and the CAISO's model.  
(The primary remaining differences would be: (
i) the way the "hour-ahead" process works - i.e., continuously vs. one discrete time; and (ii)
the way scheduling is done - i.e., the ISO would not act as the SC's representative in acquiring rights that could be made available through inter-zonal counterflows since the SCs would do this themselves.)  
So there is a real possibility that, with some agreement on the ISO's longer-term plans (whether integration of transmission rights and ancillary services procurement will rely on decentralization vs. centralization)
, we could bring together the models for the region.  
Carl[Sue, Curt, Jim, Gary, Alex, Kent, Steven, John and Barney
: I'd appreciate any feedback...
but if you want me to see it, be sure to send it to cfi1@tca-us.com, NOT the enron address from which this e-mail was sent.   
Carl]
