	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.     08/07/2000 06:46
AM13:26 GMT  7 August 2000
=
DJ BIG PICTURE:
Wider Econ Risks In California's Power Woes    
By John McAuley    Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES NEW YORK (
Dow Jones)--Hot weather and a still-robust economy haveintensified electricity demand in the face of drum-tight power supplies in California,the nation's most populous - and, in economic terms, most important - state.
The resultant rolling "brown outs" and the potential for blackouts in thefuture could have a noticeable empirical and real impact on industrial production inCalifornia and even in the national statistics.
Indeed, the impact is likely to be greatest in thehighest value-added sectors: computers and computer components, two industries thathave been a key engine of U.S. growth.
Not only that, electricity generation is an important proxy in the FederalReserve's estimation of industrial production.
So, the measurement of statisticscould be directly affected.
About half of the industrial output contained in the industrial productionindex is compiled on the basis of actual output volumes - tons of steel, boardfeetof lumber, or millions of autos assembled, etc.
For other forms of output, accounting forabout a quarter of the index, contributions to total production are estimated basedon hours worked data, with the implicit assumption that productivity - or the rateof real output per labor hour - doesn't change much over short periods of time in theseindustries.
But the remainder of the index, about 26% according to a Fed economist, isestimated using electricity generation measures.
For this purpose, electricity generation is itself estimated from measuresof electric power usage by industry.
Here, as with productivity, the technicalcoefficient, or the amount of electricity input per unit of output, is assumed to be constantover relatively long periods.         
As Usual, Things Are Different
In California California power companies, as part of the deregulation of the electricpower industry, offer their business customers "interruptible rate plans".
That means thatfor a discounted rate, customers "voluntarily" allow the power company tointerrupt their power supply in times of peak demand.
Too bad.
The heat of summer combined with continuing strong economic activity has,in fact, resulted in widespread interruptions throughout California.
And there is a precedent for how such interruptions can have both astatistical and real impact on production: the San Francisco earthquake of October 1989.
That quake disrupted electricity generation, particularly south of the cityin Silicon Valley.
Largely as a result of that disruption, national industrialproduction declined by 0.5% (0.6% in manufacturing) in October 1989.
The computer and semiconductor chip producers in Silicon Valley andelsewhere in the state
are very heavy users of electricity.
It is reasonable to expect thattheir total consumption of electricity, and their output, have skyrocketed since 1989.
This industry has a twofold importance to the rest of the national economy.
First, chips are essential inputs to the production of other industriesfrom "smart chips" in cars to central processing units for computers.
Thus, a bottleneck inchip supplies because of electricity interruptions could have ripple effects beyondCalifornia.
Second, chip production is among the highest value-added activities in theU.S. economy - each stage of production adds significantly to the value of totaloutput.
This means that the specific shock impact on this industry could have a greatlymagnified effect on overall economic activity.
The usage is not confined to chip production, however.
An extensive rangeof other California-based industries - from chemicals to textiles - have intensiveelectricity usage in their production.
Their production will be estimated lower because of the reduction inelectricity.
And in fact, real production will be lowered by a reduced electricity input.
Ironically, these interruptions could complement the Fed's efforts to sloweconomic activity and take some of the pressure off for further rate increases.
Whatinfuriates Californians might actually be a welcome development for the rest of us.    
-By
John McAuley, Dow Jones Newswires, 201-938-4425    
john.mcauley@dowjones.com
Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company IncG_nther
A. PergherSenior AnalystDow Jones & Company Inc.
Tel.  
609.520.7067Fax.
609.452.3531The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity towhich it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privilegedmaterial.  
Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, ortaking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons orentities other than the intended recipient is prohibited.
If you receivedthis in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from anycomputer.
<<Gunther Pergher
(E-mail).vcf
>
>  
- Gunther Pergher (E-mail).vcf
