  Market Participants:  
The CAISO has posted its draft Congestion Management Reform(CMR) recommendation on its web site athttp://www.caiso.com/clientserv/congestionreform.html<http://www.caiso.com/clientserv/congestionreform.html
> .
This documentrecommends changes to the CAISO's current Congestion Management process andrelated features of its business practices and operations.
This is a draftdocument, albeit one that we believe reflects significant effort and thoughton
the part of both the stakeholders who provided the initial input and theinterdisciplinary design team that drafted this document.  
This CMR recommendation represents an essential milestone inthe broader Congestion Management Reform Project.  
The first stage involvedsoliciting stakeholder input regarding the problems to be solved,alternative solutions to address these problems, and criteria for evaluatingreform proposals.
The second stage involved the CAISO's crafting anintegrated, internally consistent reform package utilizing the ideasdeveloped with and/or by Stakeholders in stage one.
This document containsthe CAISO's draft recommendation.
We emphasize that, although we believethis recommendation package to be a necessary milestone in the CongestionManagement Reform Project, it is not intended to predispose the finaldesign.
We are actively soliciting Stakeholders' comments and critiquesconcerning this recommendation over the coming weeks (stage three of the CMRproject).  
Once the next round of stakeholder input has been assessed,the CAISO will revise this CMR recommendation.
The revised recommendationwill be presented to the CAISO Governing Board for discussion and reviewonly on August 1 (no Board action requested).
The CMR recommendation willcontinue to be developed through August and the final recommendation will besubmitted to the CAISO Governing Board for approval at the September 6th and7th meeting.  
The approved CMR recommendation will be prepared (inconjunction with Stakeholders) for the final Tariff filing to FERC inNovember (stage four).
A revised, detailed calendar will be presented at theCMR Stakeholder meetings on July 13 and 14.  
At the July 13 and 14 Stakeholder meetings, the CAISO willpresent the entire recommendation, section-by-section and provide theopportunity for Stakeholders to clarify their understanding of what is beingproposed.
Shortly thereafter, we will hold additional Stakeholder meetingsto facilitate detailed discussion of individual elements of therecommendation.
Additional meeting dates will be discussed on July 14 at themeeting.  
We look forward to reviewing this proposal with you andreceiving your comments.
The CAISO welcomes any and all comments andcritiques of this recommendation.
We appreciate your attention and effortsin this endeavor to reform the Congestion Management process.  
Byron Woertz  Director, Client Relations
