THE FRIDAY BURRITO"...more fun than a fortune cookie, and at least as accurate.
"There
is a hint of Autumn in the air.  
I don=0F't know if it=0F's wishfulthinking, or if the seasons are really beginning to turn from our palesummer into a Bay Area glorious Fall.  
It=0F's premature
, I know.  
A fewfallen leaves, the start of schools, slightly longer afternoon shadows...
I=0F'm jumping the gun.  
I can=0F't wait for this summer to be over,especially this summer.  
The pounding never stops, and as I hear the dinof the cash register ringing with each climb in Southwest temperature, Ican barely keep track of all the hiccups which drive prices up:
fires inMontana restricting transmission paths, blown up interstate gas pipelinein New Mexico, diminishing N-
Ox credits for in-state power plants,depleted inventory of hours of voluntary load interruptions forcommercial and industrial customers, credit limits restricting importsof Canadian power into the Northwest and California, and BPA buyingabout 1,000 MW to cover its short hydro position.
I also get the willies every time another politician lambastes
theCalifornia restructured power industry.  
I just want to end to thesummer, now, and start a two week Fall vacation ...
anywhere, even inCleveland.
There are seven, count them, seven investigations into some aspect ofthe wholesale power market out here.  
Two days ago there were only six,but FERC just added another yesterday in response to the Prez=0F'srequest.  
That means FERC has two, the PUC has two, the State AttorneysGeneral has two (one on the ISO Governing Board, and one on the in-stategenerators), and one by the Electric Oversight Board.  
If you don=0F't havean ongoing study of the California Market, then you=0F're not hip.
All of these investigations, save FERC=0F's Section 206 Investigation, aregoing to amount to near nothing.  
A lot of wasted time and paper.  
ThePUC and EOB studies have their conclusion sections all finished.  
Nowthey need some evidence to support their assertions.
And how are we holding up under all of this?  
How are you doing?  
I talkto many of you throughout the week, and I know how frustrated you are.
I share your frustration.  
You want to tell the public, the press, andanyone in between the truth.  
You want to lay out the facts.  
You wantto show anyone who will listen that each interference into the market ismaking things worse, not better.  
The price caps, for example, aredamnable and screwing up the prices, much to the detriment of thosepeople for who price caps were supposed to be a protection against priceshocks.  
Now they are receiving higher average prices.
The public isn=0F't going to listen to anything longer than a sound bite.
And let=0F's face it,
when it comes to stellar public relations, ourindustry is not known for turning in A+ performances, except for SCE.Those
guys seem to get their story in front of the public at everyturn.  
I heard SCE is putting on their customers=0F' bill, =
0F"Here is whatyou would have paid if the rate freeze ended ....=0F".  
But many of us inthe new power industry, borne from the loins of either the natural-gasindustry or nuclear-power business, learned the hard way that the bestresponse to a public inquiry is a two-block head start in front of anangry mob.  
Keep your head down, shut your mouth, and this too shallpass.
I don=0F't buy that approach, at least not anymore.  
That is, I don=0F'tbelieve we have anything to hide, or of which to be ashamed.  
Whatelectric restructuring is about is correct, beneficial to the public,and in everyone=0F's best interests.  
Look at it this way, when they patthe last shovelful of dirt on your final resting place, for what do youmost want to be remembered?  
That you caved in to the political will ofothers, or at a moment when you had the chance, you did what was rightinstead of what was expedient?  
I think the choice is easy, albeit lacedwith sheer terror.  
Those bland homilies
I so diligently teach my kids(e.g.
, tell the truth, do what is right, think of the big picture
andnot just yourself) are a lot easier to speak than to live by.  
So joinme and stand up for what you believe.  
They can=0F't take away your pride,not yet.
Here is this week=0F's line up.
@@@ Excerpts from FERC=0F's Order on SDG&E Complaint @@@ The Development of a Super-Peak Block Energy Product
@@@ Finish the Story Contest @@@ October General Meeting @@@
What Makes Houston, Houston?
@@@
Excerpts from FERC=0F's Order on SDG&E ComplaintPresident Clinton commented from the Rose Garden that good folks in SanDiego, retired, fixed-income, likely to vote for a Democrat, are makingchoices between buying medicine or air conditioning their homes.  
I callthis the Del Monica Beach lecture.  
The Prez instructed the FERC toinvestigate the situation in California, and FERC wasted no time.
In response to SDG&E=0F's August 2 complaint, whereby the utility askedFERC to impose a $250 price cap on generators in the region, the FERCresponded in a way that I was hoping to see several months ago.  
TheFERC slammed SDG&E on their complaint for lack of merit, and the FERCalso initiated an FPA Section 206 Investigation into the wholesale powermarket in California.
Here are some of the juicy excerpts from FERC=0F's Order:=0F"In
this order, ... , we are denying SDG&E's requested immediateimposition of a price cap on all sellers in California.  
However, we areinstituting consolidated hearing   proceedings pursuant to section 206of the Federal Power Act to investigate the justness and reasonablenessof the rates and charges of public utilities that sell energy andancillary services to or through the California ISO and PX, and to alsoinvestigate whether the tariffs and institutional structures and bylawsof the California ISO and PX are adversely affecting the efficientoperation of competitive wholesale electric power markets in Californiaand need to be modified=0F"SDG&E concludes that the markets cannot be workably competitive ifsellers are able to exact prices that are considerably above levels thatwould prevail in open competition, i.e., sellers are able to bid andreceive prices significantly above their marginal costs.  
SDG&E alsoargues that the hour-to-hour volatility in imbalance energy prices andthe erratic clearing price for ancillary services
is an indication thatthe market is breaking down when it is moderately stressed.=0F"While
we find it appropriate to institute a section 206 hearing onthese issues, we cannot implement an immediate price cap of $250/MWh asrequested by SDG&E because there is no record before us to support suchan action.  
...  
While the issues raised by this complaint areimportant, the Commission has no basis to conclude that SDG&E's proposalto place an immediate, arbitrary $250/MWh cap on the price that everypublic utility seller of energy and ancillary services may bid into thePX and ISO markets would satisfy this standard.  
SDG&E has provided noevidence to demonstrate that all potential sellers are able to exercisemarket power, has not documented a single instance of a sellerexercising market power during times of scarcity, and did not attempt toshow that the conditions underlying the Commission's approval ofmarket-based rates for public utility sellers of energy and ancillaryservices have changed.  
Nor did it address specific market orinstitutional  factors that may be causing rates to be unjust
orunreasonable.=0F"SDG&E asserts that the ISO's congestion management and marketstructures are flawed and in need of overhaul. ...
Furthermore, SDG&Eexpresses its concern that, for a number of reasons, the congestionmanagement and market reform efforts being pursued by ISO stakeholderswill not produce  meaningful results.  
SDG&E indicates that it isprepared to work with the ISO to develop alternative reform proposals;however, SDG&E's complains that the ISO stakeholder process has, inSDG&E's judgment, been ineffective with respect to these issues.=0F"Various interveners contend that SDG&E's arguments are premature. ...
We agree with Interveners. ...  
The reform efforts have been the subjectof extensive public review and comment and are nearing completion.
Accordingly, we reject SDG&E's arguments at this time.=0F"It is unclear whether SDG&E's failure to purchase hedging instrumentsfor its retail operations is due to state regulatory policies or itsbusiness decisions.  
A retail rate design that exposes consumers to thevolatility of commodity prices would be extraordinary, particularly whenconsumers do not have the ability to receive or respond to pricesignals.=0F"We are concerned that ... increasing level of market activity in thereal-time market raises significant reliability and economical concerns....  
Historically, the ISO procures on a daily basis only the resourcesneeded for the operating day.  
Not only does this procurement practiceput pressure on the grid operator to secure needed resources at the lastminute, but the practice is uneconomical.  
Such spot-market purchasesare not subject to the ISO's  buyer's cap.  
Furthermore, because the ISOis the supplier of last resort for these services, when OOM calls aremade, suppliers realize that the ISO is in a must-buy situation.=0F"In an effort to address this problem, we direct the ISO to immediatelyinstitute a more forward approach to procuring the resources necessaryto reliably operate the grid.  
Specifically, the ISO should anticipatethe need for such additional resources based on  forecasted peakperiods.  
We direct the ISO to factor these reforms into an analysis ofthe need for and level of purchase price caps and to include thisanalysis as support for any filing it makes to extend its purchase pricecap authority.=0F"In closing, WPTF is an intervenor in the case, and we hope to be veryactive in the case through testimony, cross examination, the filing ofbriefs, and reply briefs.
@@@ The Development of a Super-Peak Block Energy ProductSeveral
weeks ago, I discussed with the ISO their interest in developinga new market for a block energy product that would be purchased in themorning of a trade day, and be dispatched during the super-peak hours.
I challenged them to let the market participants develop this marketinstead of the ISO doing the same.
At the August 1 ISO Governing Board meeting, I stated as the WPTFposition that we oppose price caps, but if the ISO Governing Boardinsisted on going down the $250/MWH price cap route, we would do whatever we could to help the situation and avoid the occurrences of Stage 3alerts.  
Whereas I didn=0F't think about the conversation on super-peakblock markets as being relevant to  the remarks before the GoverningBoard, it became painfully clear soon after that we could, and shouldwork with the ISO to develop a new market through either APX or theCalifornia PX, or both, to bring some order to the otherwise chaotic Outof Market system.
This week, WPTF and the ISO had a joint meeting whereby both sidesdiscussed the merits of a super-peak block firm-energy product, and howit could be instituted.  
The meeting at the ISO, at which WPTF had manyof its members who either have generation in the State, or import powerinto California, was for market participants and the ISO to discuss howto
bring more order and price transparency to the ISO's out of marketcalls.
The ISO reported that this summer, to date, the amount of moneyspent on Out of Market purchases was about $100 million.  
Last year thetotal cost of Out of Market purchases was $1.7 million.
APX and CalPX, in response to our earlier discussions with them,presented their proposals at the meeting.  
The discussions which ensuedduring the course of the presentations focused on how the ISO mightutilize a product/service to reduce the manpower requirements currentlyneeded to satisfy its out of market telephone calls, typically on shortnotice, and the interest on the part of market participants to make bidsinto either the APX or CalPX's proposed system for a super-peakfirm-energy product.
There were no  commitments made by any party, simply a willingness towork together to alleviate the problems associated with findingsufficient electric power during high demand periods with greatertransparency, more participants, and greater market efficiency.
We=0F'll keep you posted on our development of this market.
Sometimes I share bites of our Burrito with fellow travellers, much as Idid last week when I sent my friend Mike Florio a copy of the storycalled the Trial of Gow Jing.  
Mike sent me a note that I would like toshare.
He said I could.  
I want you to read it and appreciate that thereare other people who share his view.  
I also copied the response I sentto Michael, a.k.a. Old Deuteronomy.
Michael wrote:=0F"I'm not going to attempt to complete your little melodrama [theGow-Jing story], but I did want to offer an observation.  
In simplertimes, people knew the other people that they did business with, andthey typically lived in the same community.  
If a merchant tried tocharge exorbitant prices for his products, even if he was the only onein town who had the product in stock, he would face the wrath of hisfellow citizens.  
This undoubtedly served as a constraint on suchbehavior, even in the absence of a CPUC or FERC.
Telling Mrs. Jones thatthe loaf of bread she needs to feed her kids will cost her $50 would notbe a pleasant way to do business, and such things ordinarily did nothappen.=0F"In the modern global economy, of course, this personal aspect of doingbusiness has been almost completely lost.  
And so has the restraint.  
Ihave
no doubt that the folks who sell electricity are good people (
jeez,I know many of them), but they work in an environment where the endresults of their business decisions are invisible.  
If Mrs. Jones can'tafford to run her refrigerator any more, that fact is at best dimlyperceived, and if so it is viewed as cause for some sort of socialprogram, not a reason why a merchant would alter his behavior.=0F"This is clearly not a case of socialism versus capitalism, because bothscenarios occur within the overall context of a capitalist system.  
Butcertainly something fundamental has changed, and not for the better inmy view.  
Now everyone feels compelled to squeeze the last dollar out ofevery transaction--
their jobs may even depend upon it-- and no one isresponsible for the end result.  
Is this the kind of world we want tolive
in???=0F"PUT THAT IN YOUR BURRITO AND SEE WHAT YOUR READERS SAY!  
YOU CAN EVENBLAME ME,
SO THAT YOU ARE NOT ACCUSED OF TURNING PINK IN YOUR MIDDLEAGE.      
Deut=0F"Okay.  
It=0F's in the Burrito.  
And here is what I think.
You allude to the change in a world that was once =0F"more personal=0F
" and= isnow institutional.  
You make the point that things are not better off iffor no other reason
then the lack of personal accountability.  
But Idon=0F't think that in all cases the more personal world is lost.  
It isever present, as I will argue below.  
Second, your group embraces theimpersonal =
0F"efficiencies=0F"
when it is convenient.  
Finally and mostimportantly, where will your social-minded and like minded counterpartsbe when competitive forces leap supply ahead of demand, which mighthappen in a handful of years?However, your essential point is not lost on me.  
I do believe thatthere are ways for generators and consumers to be good neighbors inCalifornia.  
I have a proposal below to which I would like to hear yourresponse.
First, though, the personal business touch is present in our economy.  
Iexercise the restraint to which your story pines in many of myconsulting engagements which require financial give and take betweenclient and vendor.  
It is simply smart business to do so.  
I have beenthe beneficiary of the same with my local bank when errors occurred inmy checking accounts, or when loan payments were made absent mindedlylate, etc., and the late fee forgiven.  
However, much of our economy,and certainly the trade of a commodity such as electricity requires theuse of markets.  
Nameless and faceless, they do squeeze out all theefficiencies which lead to lower prices, more innovation, and a sharingof price risk with parties who are neither the ultimate consumer nor theinitial producer.  
The producer and consumer get out of the riskarbitrage and leave it to others who are more skilled and monied.
I find it ironic that TURN, then, is so insistent on arguing, as it hasdone on many many occasions for the relaxation of market separation
inthe ISO=0F's congestion management reform.  
Elimination of marketseparation is nothing more than the impersonal forcing of parties toexecute trades on either side of a congested transmission path in thename of market efficiency.  
Lower prices for consumers.  
Does it reallymatter if it is done through person to person transactions, or throughmarkets?Third, your story can be used to make an alternative point.  
Whathappens to the merchant in town
when Wal-Mart moves into the next towndown the road?  
All the faithful customers that your Merchant ofVengeance was protecting suddenly migrate to a competitor with greaterinventory, more choice, and lower prices.  
What do you say, then?  
Thecorollary for us is direct.  
The new generation owners moved literallybillions of dollars into California, at risk, and took a chance.  
Itpaid off.  
They succeeded as we all know this year, and probably willnext year, and so on.  
But the 3,000 MW of new power plants underconstruction in California, and the 3,000 MW under construction inArizona, and the over 16,000 MW of combined power projects inCalifornia, Arizona, and Southern Nevada that are in line for permitswill change the financial landscape in a hurry once energized.  
Theprices will soften, returns will be less cherry, and I really want toknow, where will today=0F's accusers be when there is a shake out?Consumers will reap that benefit, oh you best believe it.
But thealliances to which your opening story alludes simply misses that point.
You gotta make hay while the sun shines.
Now to my proposal.   
Michael, I would be willing to work with you
todevelop some kind of loan program for residential and small commercialcustomers that would, in effect, reduce the economic hardship of higherelectricity prices.  
I could imagine, although I haven=0F't tested the ideawith any parties,  that a significant program could be crafted, possiblysecured by the credit of participating generating companies, andexecuted by a commercial lending institution such as Bank of America.
Borrowers would pay a fair interest rate and the administrative fees.
It=0F's simply smart business, not charity.  
It=0F's one way to amortize th=eearnings which came about due to a circumstance of short supply relativeto the sudden growth of demand for power.
Maybe that is a step in the right direction, I don=0F't know.
One couldargue that it is no different than SDG&E implementing a level paymentplan for it=0F's consumers.  
True, it is no different, because in eithercase the customer is paying for the loan interest and administrativefees, and I consistently believe that a market for credit is moreefficient (am I getting impersonal?)
than one instituted by amonopoly.   
Second, the security for these loans is provided by partiesother than the utility=0F's customers.  
Further, we wouldn=0F't have to wor=ryabout
PUC oversight and prudence reviews.  
We could make this workquickly.
I will be very interested to hear your thoughts, and the comments of mymembers.  
Thanks for sending us your letter.
@@@ Finish the Story ContestWell, there was only one response, and that was from Carl Imparato.
Here is what Carl said,=0F"Am
I missing something?
Who is Gow-Jing supposed to represent?
(Yes, Iget the pun in the name.  
But is he also just an anonymous "everyman" oris there someone in particular?)=0F"My
first response to your question is that Gow-Jing simply replies=0F`Itai!=0F' (You could look it up...
I think it's Chinese for =
0F`it
hurt=
s!=0F').Then
he takes out a concealed axe, goes on a rampage and killseveryone.  
But that's too realistic, so don't use that ending.  
Instead:=0F"Ending:  
Just as he was about to reply, a giant 500 foot wall of waterswept through the room, drowning everyone.  
And they lived happily everafter.  
The end.
"I
haven=0F't decided whether to name this response
Carl=0F's Gilgamesh Epic(I.e., Noah and the flood), or Carl=0F's Hydro Dream.  
We=0F'll leave thecontest open for another week.  
Can=0F't let $5 bucks go the only entry.
Where=0F's the competition?
@@@ October General MeetingBarb Ennis, our event coordinator for our General Meeting wanted youfolks to know that the Inn at Morro Bay blocked a few more rooms for uson Wednesday, October 4th (for the early birds) and of course Thursday,October 5th.
To date, 21 of the 24 rooms originally set aside in theWPTF block are now taken.
Among the additional rooms, there are 2 rooms blocked with double bedson
Wed. & Thur
.
nights at $152.00 each and 6 rooms on both nights for$89.00 each.  
Folks, you better call the Inn at Morro Bay, telephone800-321-9566.  
Rooms should be requested under the name of the WesternPower Trading Forum.
Also feel free to call the Inn and book a room for Friday and Saturdayif you wish to stay over....
ask for SHAWN.For those who are in the golf, green fees are $28.00 plus $10.00 for thecart.
Please RSVP me by E-Mail (baennis@ix.netcom.com)
if you are attendingThe Social Evening Dinner
On Thursday Night ($45 per person, all areinvited) and also the luncheon on Friday (no charge)
....
I must have anaccurate headcount.
Have a great weekend and see you at Morro Bay
.......Barb @@@
What Makes Houston, Houston?Dan Douglass of Arter and Hadden sent us the following item.
Houston,the unofficial home of the electric power industry, is a town you eitherlove or hate.  
Here are some guiding principles offered by the Chamberof Commerce of the 4th largest city to enable their many visitors tocope.=0F=07   
First you must learn to pronounce the city  name.
It is YEWS-TUN
a=ndit does not matter how people pronounce it in other places.=0F=07   
Forget the traffic rules you learned elsewhere.
Houston has its ow=nversion of traffic rules.
Never forget that downtown Houston is composedentirely of one way streets.
The only way to get out of center of townis toturn around and start over when you reach Dallas, Texas.=0F=07   
All directions start with, "Go down  Westheimer...
"=0F=07   
Westheimer has no beginning and no end.=0F=07   
It's impossible to go around a block and wind up on the street  
yo=ustarted on.
The Chamber of Commerce calls this a "scenic  drive".=0F=07   The 8am rush hour is from 6:30 to 9:30am.
The 5:00 pm rush hour isfrom 3:30 to 6:30 pm.  
Friday's rush hour starts on Thursday morning.=0F=07   
If you actually stop at a yellow light, you cannot be from Houston=.=0F=07   
Kuykendahl Road can only be pronounced by a native, so do notattempt the phonetic pronunciation.
People will simply tilt their headsto the right and stare at you.=0F=07   Construction on the Gulf Freeway is a way of life, and a permanentform of entertainment.=0F=07   
Many bizarre sights can be explained simply by uttering the phrase=," Oh, we're in Montrose!!"=0F=07   
Construction crews aren't doing their job properly  unless theyclose down all lanes except one during rush
hour.=0F=07   
If  someone actually has their turn signal on, it was probably lef
=ton at the factory where the car was made.=0F=07   
White haired men driving red or silver sports cars will not obey a=nyknown traffic rule and cannot be expected to stop for red lights or stopsigns.=0F=07   
All ladies with blue hair who drive Cadillacs or LincolnContinentals have the right of way.=0F=07   
The above mentioned blue haired ladies also have a  legal right toturn right from a left lane or to turn left from a right  lane.
YOU HAVEBEEN
WARNED!=0F=07   
Buying a  Houston street map is a waste of money since there isabsolutely no way that you can route yourself in such a manner as toavoid major road construction.=0F=07   
Houston natives are so rare that they are listed on the endangeredspecies list.
The few remaining specimens are kept in a controlledenvironment for their own safety.=0F=07   
Sir" and "Ma'am" are used by the person speaking to you if there's= aremote  possibility that you're at least 30 minutes older than they are.=0F=07   "Sugar" is a more common form of  address than "Miss".
So is"Honey".
Do not take offense.
This is how southerners address grownwomen.=0F=07   
In Houston we drink Coca-Cola  and Dr. Pepper.
It is rumored thatother soft drinks are sold here, but no one will admit to knowing anyonewho actually drinks them.  
So don't ask for any other soft drink.=0F=07   
What you need to know when arriving at Bush IntercontinentalAirport: Your arrival gate is at least 32 miles away from the MainConcourse of any terminal.  
Walking heels on your boots or walking shoesare
advised.=0F=07   
Never honk your horn at another car in Houston traffic.
The bumpersticker that reads, "Keep honking, I'm reloading" is considered fairwarning.=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3DHave a great weekend, y=0F'all.gba
