TSWG Meeting notes for 8/23/00Participants:
Scheduling Coordinators - Altra, SCE, CDWR, PGE, Riverside, Southern,Midway, Dynegy, PX, Reliant, NCPA, & more.
ISO - Darren Lamb, Ginger Seitles, Greg Ford, Eddie Ledesma, Mark Rothleder,CP Ng, Jim Blatchford.
Settlement Dispute System (SDS):Not implemented yet.
Automated Dispatch System
(ADS):The ADS Query File Data Dictionary was released this week.
ADS client 26 wasreleased 8/23.
Features include Query data which now contain decimalsinstead of integer values and system performance improvement by limitingqueries to 7 days worth of data at a time.
A question was raised about whattime standard is used for instructions.
Greg Ford responded it is PDT/PST.RMR Scheduling:
No comments10-Minute Settlement:The API parser had corrections made.
The Ex-Post price fix (looking for 6values instead of 1) has been implemented and is working.
Also thesupplemental energy import parsing order was corrected.
The Beep_Gen_Fulltemplate does successfully parse through the existing parser.
Ginger Seitlesis working with SCE to correct the localized parser problem.
The questionwas raised if there may be only one record supporting two charge types.
CPresponded that for CTs
401/407 there is, and can be, one record supportingmultiple charge types.
A question was raised concerning instructions beingover lapped to the next day.
Mark responded that there are no instructionsthat are issued to last over a day.
Mark also reminded everyone thateffective June 1st that the ISO stated using ramping energy versus blockenergy for dispatches.
He also reminded all that residual energy would be ineffect on September 1st.  
The PX asked if there were DC loss calculationavailable for the market simulation information.
CP stated that there wasand would forward it on to the PX.
It is also planned to publish theimplementation schedule the week of 8/28.InterSC Trades of Adjustment Bids:
The implementation target date for Inter-SC Trade Adjustment Bid has beendelayed until the first week of October 1, 2000.
A new schedule has beenpublished.
A training class has been tentatively scheduled for September19th .
Details to follow.
OASIS Redesign:
Darren Lamb explained that the project is progressing satisfactorily.
He isstill anticipating a market testing in late October with full implementationin mid-December.
A concerned was raised about the amount of time, if any wasbeing allotted for overlapping of templates.
Dual Invoicing:Everyone was reminded that the first preliminary invoices were coming out8/24.Other:A request was made (after the TSWG call) to change the time of the call to1330 PDT to accommodate those in the Eastern Time zone.  
Comments arerequested.
Jim BlatchfordClient RelationsCal ISO916.608.7051
