	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.     08/23/2000 07:42
AM14:22
GMT  
23 August 2000 DJ Clinton To Direct Govt
To Help Calif On Electricity Woes WASHINGTON
(Dow Jones)--U.S. President Bill Clinton will direct federalagencies Wednesday to provide financial assistance to low-income families and small businesses in Southern California to help them cope with high electricitybills, the White House said in a written statement.
Clinton also ordered the release of $2.6 million from the Low Income HomeEnergy Assistance Program to help low-income families in Southern California.
TheSmall Business Administration will urge its lending partners to use SBA creditprograms to help small businesses with their energy costs.
Clinton is taking the action because of a steep rise in the wholesale priceof electricity, the statement said.
In addition, Clinton has called on Energy Secretary Bill Richardson to askthe Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to speed up an investigation into the bulkmarket for electricity "so that state and federal regulators and policy makers canhave the information they need to protect consumers in a timely fashion."
Clinton's actions marks the second time this summer the president hasstepped in to help California cope with its electricity shortages.
Earlier, Clintoncalled on all federal facilities in California to cut their power usage and to direct power backinto the electricity grid.
-By
Alex Keto, Dow Jones Newswires; 202 862 9256; alex.keto@dowjones.com Copyright (c)
2000, Dow Jones & Company IncG_nther A. PergherSenior AnalystDow Jones & Company Inc.
Tel.  
609.520.7067Fax.
609.452.3531The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity towhich it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privilegedmaterial.  
Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, ortaking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons orentities other than the intended recipient is prohibited.
If you receivedthis in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from anycomputer.
<<Gunther Pergher
(E-mail).vcf
>
>  
- Gunther Pergher (E-mail).vcf
